cool welcome to the webinar this one's
IELTS reading it's super skills number
four my name is Jay I'm one of the
teachers at e2 language comm I was just
saying that the IELTS reading ears a
balance of two things really it's a
balance of language skills and it's a
balance of test strategy don't focus too
much on test strategy if you don't have
the vocabulary and the grammar the test
strategy won't help you that much okay
you really need to build your
fundamental skills if you want to get a
high score you need to understand every
single word in that text and the grammar
as well because that also has meaning
but then you also need the strategy at
the same time you need to understand the
different question types etc so this is
what I'm going to show you in this
lesson and we'll look at both things
will look at some skills and will look
at the test strategy as well first thing
we're going to look for look at is
scanning for synonyms that is absolutely
critical in IELTS reading if you don't
really understand synonyms to keep
watching we're going to learn about
skimming for the main idea and then
we're going to do a mock test and in the
mock test what I'm going to do is give
you a very simple question then I'm
going to give you the hard question just
so you can understand the concept it
works very well let's first think about
synonyms synonym sits like this this is
what you have to do in the IELTS reading
you have to be looking out for words
that have the same meaning basically
what's going to happen is you're going
to look at the question you're going to
pick out a key word you're going to look
at the passage you're going find the
corresponding key word in the passage
then you're going to answer the question
that sums up IELTS reading again you're
going to get the question you're going
to find a key word in the question
you're then going to look at the passage
you're going to find the corresponding
key word which will probably be a
synonym then you're going to look and
you're going to answer the question that
is it that is how you do IELTS reading
the problem is the key word you find in
the question will be different from the
passage more than likely it's called a
synonym so let's do a little warm-up I
want you to find the synonyms please
here
are the different words like verbs and
adjectives etc I want to look into the
text I want you to find the
corresponding synonyms you have a couple
of minutes to do this
you
please type your answers into the chat
good Adam
if you can't find one I want you to skip
it and go to the next one you have one
minute left
you
good see hell could 30 seconds left
ten seconds
you
good Sneha well done okay that's enough
time it didn't do it in that amount of
time you should be a little bit
concerned you should be able to do that
in that time let's have a look so the
first one was allow so what we want to
do is imagine that this is in the
question the questions asking is
something about allowing okay but in the
text it's not going to use the same word
it's going to use a synonym so we need
to scan our eyes over and we need to
look and we need to find the same
meaning as the word allow same here
pinpointed you can imagine that the
question says something about
pinpointing and so then you need to go
to the passage you need to find the
corresponding where in the text it says
that so you can go back and then answer
the question let's have a look at the
answers here so allow enable these are
synonyms allow enable these mean the
same things so this is the word in the
question this is the word in the text so
imagine here it says researchers have
identified genes that enable the fish so
you can imagine in the question it said
something like what allows the fish to
blah blah blah so the answer would be
jeans but first you need to find that
synonym so you know where to read
pinpointed identified these are synonyms
a few several amazing extraordinary
execute perform so these are the answers
to those questions there let's do it
again this time it's going to be a
little bit more difficult why because
all of the you just saw four words or
five words in one paragraph this time
going to give you one word and you need
to scan read the entire paragraph to
find that one word okay this is like
finding a needle in haystack this is
what IELTS reading is all about needles
in the haystack
so scan your eyes over keep the original
word current current current in your
mind as you read the paragraphs
here we go I'll give you one minute
actually I'm going to give you 20
seconds current current current
and I'll give you a little bit more time
be another 30 seconds current current
current good well done good on kit well
done you good good Sneha
how you going on YouTube by the way
please type your answers into the chat
on YouTube or into the comments and
don't forget to give a thumbs up a like
please and that's enough time there cool
well let's have a look
current existing current existing here's
the here's a big takeaway about IELTS
reading you don't have enough time to
read the passage I know that sounds
crazy but there just simply isn't enough
time to go it's not like reading the
Sunday newspaper when you go oh let's
have a casual read and use out reading
from the top to the bottom you turn the
page and read the rest then have a cup
of tea IELTS reading is not like that at
all as soon as you get your test paper
and they say you can begin in two look
at that question you need to understand
that the questions are sequential and so
are the answers in the text so question
one will be at the top of the test
question two will be below question
three will be below and it follows like
that so what you have to do is not
bother reading the passage you look at
the question and it says something like
what is what are the what's what's the
first color of the rainbow whatever it
is and you look across at the passage
and you're looking for that key word
color or rainbow or synonym and you're
looking and you see the first color of
the rainbow is red you find that word
you answer the question you move to the
next one you don't sit there and read
the passage simply not enough time
simply not enough time let's do this one
I want you to find the synonym for the
word negative negative you have one
minutes negative negative
thirty seconds left you should get it
within 30 seconds to be honest I'll give
you another 30 seconds just in case
ten seconds all right let's have a look
at the answer here negative negative
negative study found diverse now
attribute sudden popularization samplers
diversity negative negative declining
now reject negative persist ik negative
use negative use pessimistic views there
you go there's the answer there here's
an interesting thing about language
let's go back and let's look at all the
words in this text okay so we have the
study found that 1986 was the least
diverse year etc there are two types of
words or two categories of words here
there are words that have meaning for
example study found 1986 least diverse
year researchers these are meaningful
words they have meaning they put a
picture in your mind but there are also
other words that are meaningless the
grammatical words the that was the for
the to the of and at the these words
have no meaning so when you're scanning
your eyes over the text to find a
keyword you're not looking at the
grammatical words you skip the
grammatical words you skip that you look
here study found 1986 leet diverse
researchers attribute nouns verbs
adjectives these are the keywords that
you need to look at you need to ignore
articles ignore pronouns these types of
verbs like was is B are for example
articles ignore prepositions for at two
of you need to find those meaningful
words it's all about meaningful words
let's do more for unheard of unheard of
unheard of unheard of
this time I'll give you 20 seconds
unheard of
three two one stop okay unheard of
unheard of unprecedented unprecedented
there you go so you scanned your eyes
over you don't worry about those
grammatical words you're just looking
for the key nouns key verbs key
adjectives the meaningful words and
there you go unprecedented cool so we
felt we've done the first set of skills
the first skill is synonyms which is
absolutely critical synonym synonym
synonyms you need to build your
vocabulary you need to get your
vocabulary to a point where you look at
that question and you look at the
passage and you can just go bang I see
the synonyms but if you're looking at
the question and you're looking at the
passage and you understand 80% 85% and
you're sort of like oh I don't
understand that word that's going to be
problematic because you really need to
get your vocabulary to the point where
you understand 95 96 97 a hundred
percent if you can cool the other major
skill is this one that you're looking at
now what's the main idea what's the main
idea so we've just looked at how to find
details synonyms are about details but
there's another reading skill in IELTS
which is about looking at a paragraph
and pulling out the main idea of the
paragraph this relates to questions like
which questions are they match headings
matching information the matching
questions are about finding the main
idea there's other questions like true
files not given our about finding
details so two real types of questions
in IELTS reading details and main idea
let's have a look I want to scan read
the paragraph to find the main idea what
do I mean by that well let's have a look
at the question here so here you have
different possible summaries of this
paragraph here so you've got four
summaries here you've got the paragraph
only one of these summaries is true is
correct
the others are not good summaries they
might contain some words from the
paragraph the
don't really capture the main idea what
you have to think about is if you took
this paragraph and you put it into a
saucepan and you turn on the gas and you
boiled it down boiled it down to its
main idea what's the key thing that it's
saying so let's try this I'm going to
give you a couple of minutes to find the
main idea
good all right let's have a look fine so
here's the strategy for this one what
you want to do first before you read the
paragraph is quickly read the answer
options celebrity culture is good for
teenagers celebrity culture is negative
for teenagers teenagers learn about
modern life through celebrity culture
celebrities are role models for
teenagers fine now we have a look at the
passage and we keep these in our mind
just in the back of our mind
here it says teenagers interested in
celebrity culture are more likely to
have a well-rounded knowledge of modern
life and awareness of issues relating to
politics economics in the media many
intelligent young people have a desire
to learn about celebrities lives which
can help them develop informed opinions
on topical debate blah blah blah blah
blah celebrity culture is good for
teenagers and possibly slippery cultures
negative for teenagers teenagers learn
about modern life through celebrity
culture that looks pretty good
celebrities are role models for
teenagers see this is the main idea of
the paragraph let's do it again
I want you to scan read to find the main
idea I want you to first read the answer
options then read the passage then come
back and select
you
all right let's have a look so first
thing we do is read the question music
is important in all cultures musical
repetition pulls us in music in the
brain music is emotional then we have a
look at the passage repetition in music
can be emotive repeated throughout a
composition or a favorited song played
again and again it can be the annoying
airway and blah blah blah music is a
fundamentally human capacity present in
all known cultures an important
repetition is a key element in music one
that both pulls us into the experience
calls us together as people what's this
about be musical repetition pulls us in
this is what the paragraphs are out
let's do one more before we do the mock
test here we go
let's have a look walking and foot
impact walking is good for your heart
and muscles walking is good for the body
how walking benefits the brain you
probably know that walking does your
body good but it's not just your heart
and muscles that benefit
okay so let's eliminate this one here
because it's not just your heart muscles
that benefit research has found that the
foots impact during walking sends
pressure waves through the arteries that
significantly modify and increase and
can increase the supply of blood to the
brain our walking benefits the brain
there you go all right good we've now
warmed up by looking at synonyms and
looking at the main idea now we're going
to do it a mock test but we're going to
do this a little bit differently instead
of me just giving you really difficult
questions and you sitting there going ah
I don't understand what I'm going to do
first is give you a dead simple example
the dead simple example will help you to
understand the concept of the question
to understand the format of the question
then after you've done the dead simple
one I'll give you a real one so you can
actually practice with real life
materials cool what I want you to do is
this will be out of ten so I want you to
write down on a piece of paper one two
three four five six eight nine ten like
this vertically why because this is what
the IELTS answers sheet looks like and
here you have to write something like a
or B or C or true false not given or
maybe a word or a little Roman numeral
there's all sorts of different things
you have to write on the answer sheet so
it's good to be aware of that to
understand that so on test day it
doesn't intimidate you you know exactly
what to do go bang bang bang
first one we're going to look at is
multiple choice
simple just dead simple please do this
you may have seen it before but please
do it again read the question read the
passage read the question again choose
the asset read the question read maybe
reread the passage answer the question
good that's probably enough time so we
really question what color is Jay's car
remember you don't have enough time to
just read the passage from beginning to
end so first you read the question so
you know what to look for in the passage
when you scan read over the top
what color is Jay's car Jay has a red
car fine from whom did Jay purchase his
car
something about uncle Tim the answer is
C red and D Tim they are the answers
there
let's use our understanding of this
question type now to do a real one let
me disappear
I'll give you a couple of minutes to
answer these questions here
you
[Music]
if you one more minute
you
thirty seconds
all right let's have a look at question
1 so what is the main cause of increased
medical tourism we can see the key word
here in fact we can D it's not a synonym
it's exactly the same keyword here
medical tourism what's the main cause is
a growing phenomenon associated with
globalization hmm what costs on my 10
million pounds annually here we can see
a synonym it's 8 million cost the costs
8 million pounds a year so almost 10
million is a synonym for 8 million well
depends really depends how rich you are
I guess right the top look at the
answers the answers are see
globalization is a growing phenomenon is
the main cause associated with
globalization and number 2 what costs
almost 10 million pounds annually badly
performed surgeries it's estimated that
botched cosmetic work interesting here's
a great example of what I was talking
about before with synonyms badly
performed surgeries botched cosmetic
work there you go that's a phrase in
fact it's not a single word that means
the same thing so the answers there were
C and a let's have a look at yes no not
given this is very similar to true false
not given the difference between true
false not given and yes no not given is
that true false not given looks at facts
yes no not given looks at opinions but
they're basically the same the basically
the same but one looks at facts one
looks at opinions it's kind of tricky
let's have a look I'm going to talk you
through this one so you answer yes if
the statement if one of these says the
same thing as the passage so if this
says J is hilarious and this says J is
hilarious because that an opinion by the
way then you answer yes if this this
says J is hilarious and here it says
something contradictory that says J is
not hilarious for example you answer no
or if you just if there's no information
and you have to assume then you should
write not given because never assume if
you're assuming it has to be not given
so please answer these three questions
here
you
all right let's look at the I'll give
you a little bit more time
all right let's have a look all right J
is hilarious
J is a really funny guy he tells jokes
all the time
people always laugh at him is this going
to be yes no not given does it say the
same thing in different words yes J
enjoys doing stand-up comedy
says here sometimes he J does stand-up
comedy now it says here that he enjoys
it we have to assume because we don't
really know maybe he doesn't enjoy it we
just don't know and here it says J is
not funny
here it says J is a really funny guy so
the answers are this one is yes they say
the same thing so yes this is not given
because we just don't know and we have
to assume this one is no because here
it's contradicting what it says in the
passage from the statement J is a really
funny guy J is not funny that is not
cool now that you understand that let's
do a real question using the same
concept
you
whoops I just realized that I had my
microphone on
dude for like five minutes and I
explained everything let me do that
again I'm sorry about that let's have a
look at the answers to him because I
explained that really Watsu here we go
number three large smilers are perceived
as friendly this is yes
why broad smiles lead people to be
perceived as warmer this statement here
in the text says the same thing as this
statement but just in different words it
uses synonyms large smilers broad smiles
for example are perceived as friendly
lead people to be perceived as warmer
warm friendly this statement this
statement say the same thing so it's yes
big smiles can be perceived as
competence no broad smiles lead people
to be perceived as warmer but less
competent this says big smiles can be
perceived as competent this says
something directly contradicting that
statement saying something else saying
so many other so it has to be know these
two things say something different what
about this one
consumer behavior is positively
influenced by smiling marketers not
given why here it says researchers asked
how that can influence consumer behavior
and in what situations might marketers
want to smile more broadly here it says
consumer behavior is positively
influenced here it doesn't say anything
about positive influence it just says
influence so we don't know and if we
assume something it has to be not given
number six it's better not to smile in
marketing photos no why because here it
says be sure to smile in your profile
photo or your post but maybe not too big
so this contradict this therefore it's
no now you can put that
is that working now not able to hear
anything just put a smiley face or
something into the chat if you can hear
me because I think something's going on
here
cool alright you hear me good technology
technology it's good but it's not
perfect
fine cool let's do the next one
summary completion this one we haven't
done before actually let me show you my
face this one we haven't done before
this is ah a little bit different what
I'm going to do is show you a dead
simple one here's the summary here and
here's the passage here it says J bought
a something car off his uncle Tim that's
the question there you need to look at
the passage you need to pick a word and
put it into the passage it'll be the
same word
now there's an important thing here to
remember and that's the instruction it
says using no more than one word from
the text sometimes it will be one word
or two words or even two words and or a
number you need to read that instruction
but basically what you do is quickly
scammy the summary look for the type of
word that you need so here you need an
adjective for example here you need an
adjective look at the passage find the
corresponding key words answer that
summary I'll give you one minute to do
this one
good
Lane well done
good one good hunk it that I alright
let's have a look at the answers here so
J bought a something car there's your
keyword we look here we see car as
something car it's got to be a red car a
red car okay we're going to take the
word directly from the passage you're
not creating words here you're stealing
them from the passage to fill those gaps
25a is a pretty something guy what sort
of guy is he
well here it says J is a really funny
guy funny guy so that's good 26 he works
teaching English for a something online
company J teaches English native
language it's a cool company a cool
company answered a red car funny guy and
cool online company yeah I don't know if
it had cool yep cool good fine let's do
that again let's do it for real this
time
you
I'm just going to change this this is
the word - I just realized I've got a
small area here so let me change this
word and to the word - which will help
you out because now you know that the
next word will have to be a verb that's
the word - - okay
[Music]
so I'll keep check your number 10
because millions people in millions
people doesn't work
millions of people works but you can
only write one word remember 30 seconds
ten seconds
all right let's have a look here sorry
about that that was a small grammatical
error that I made it should have been
worth two because here is a verb not and
anyway you guys are geniuses because
some of you got it anyway without even
me fixing it there um what's going on
here all right let me just delete this
I'm having problems today my computer
what's going on
clear clear or drawing spotlight fine
let's just use this fine sleep is
important for your memory let's have a
look here let me disappear when you
sleep your brain is busy storing and
consolidating things you learned that
day stuff you'll need in your memory it
I just I actually if you write the word
brain that is also possible too it's a
little bit unclear unclear it's probably
not a great question so memory or brain
I'm happy with that sleep is important
for your memory or brain however this
function may be impaired in some people
with brain well here we've got the word
neurological you've got the word brain
that's is in an M so this has to be
conditions brain conditions fine new
research is targeting specific brain
activity during sleep to strengthen
memory strengthen if you had the word
strengthened that's correct in something
people now somebody wrote millions
people but that's incorrect because it
could be millions of people but here it
says no more than one word so the answer
has to be healthy people in healthy
people and here we've taken that word
directly from the text here cool so
what's your score out of ten because
here are the answers see a yes no not
given no memory or brain I'm happy with
brain as well for number seven
conditions are strengthened now it has
to be conditions plural if you write
condition singular without the S it
would be
correct you have to be very careful of
being you have to be a perfectionist
with this strengthened and healthy
please type into the chat your score
cool so we've got eight seven seven what
else would we go that was a pretty hard
test actually I um got eight well done
that's a good score
that's fine
it's fine if you're on YouTube please
feel free to write in the comment what
score you got that would be interesting
and don't forget to give a like for this
video if you want more and more and more
cool all right now while I've got you
yes
milene says the yes no not given was
difficult yes I agree cool why I've got
you you might want to think about
upgrading your package on e to language
why well there are a number of reasons
why to do that first of all you get a
study plan which means that you can meet
the teacher one-on-one to talk to the
teacher about what you need to do to
succeed the teacher will talk to you
about your strengths and your weaknesses
look at your previous scores write you
up a study schedule get you started
answer any questions you have about the
test the next thing and this is super
important for IELTS is the methods we
just looked at different methods today
for some of the reading questions we
also offer the same sorts of methods for
listening for writing and for speaking
as well so we go in-depth and we tell
you how to do each and every question
but not just that we sort of we build
your skills we give you lots of
materials to practice with as well you
also get feedback so if you need
feedback from it from an expert on your
writing or your speaking
you submit an essay writing task 2 for
example and we give you feedback you're
also as part of your package get
tutorial so one-on-one tutorials with
somebody like me
of a Skype or sorry not Skype zoom we
used to use Skype over zoom so what
you're using now if you're in the
webinar we also do live classes every
Monday Tuesday Wednesday and Thursday on
writing task 1 writing task 2 as well as
reading and that's for general and
academic and we're to give you constant
motivation so do think about upgrading
your account on e to language we have an
express package which is 69 US dollars
and we have packages that go right up to
349 which include heaps of one-on-one
tutorials and feedback and whatnot
cool so I'm going to hang around and
answer any questions you have
you have any questions feel free to type
them into the chat so me are on YouTube
is got an exam in 8 hours no problem my
era so on YouTube we had rock reham got
9 out of 10
serene 8 out of 10 curve in 6 Sun j6j
Joshi 7 6 cool not too bad not too bad
fine that's fine ah alright no questions
not a problem
alright if you need any help just go to
e to language comm sign up as a free
user once you get sick of that you need
more help do sign up as a paid user I'll
see you guys soon if you're any other
questions feel free to email hello at e
to language calm hello at E 2 language
calm I'll see you soon
cool I